README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token/workflows/Build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token/actions)
[![Publish Status](https://github.com/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token/workflows/Publish/badge.svg)](https://github.com/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token/actions)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/verify-apple-id-token)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/verify-apple-id-token)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=TD7C0Z3YA6)](https://codecov.io/gh/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token)

# Verify Apple idToken

- Small utility which verifies the Apple idToken
- You can use it on the backend side
- Token verification is part of [Apple sign-in](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/signinwithapplerestapi) process
- The flow is
    - Client app (iOS or Android) will redirect user to the OAuth2 login screen
    - User will login
    - App will receive the tokens
    - App should send the `idToken` to the backend which will verify it
- [Verification steps implemented](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/sign_in_with_apple_rest_api/verifying_a_user):
    - Verify the JWS E256 signature using the server’s public key
    - Verify the nonce for the authentication
    - Verify that the iss field contains https://appleid.apple.com
    - Verify that the aud field is the developer’s client_id
    - Verify that the time is earlier than the exp value of the token

## Installation
```bash
npm install verify-apple-id-token
```

## Usage
### Typescript
```typescript
import verifyAppleToken from 'verify-apple-id-token';

const jwtClaims = await verifyAppleToken({
    idToken: 'yourIdToken',
    clientId: 'yourAppleClientId',
    nonce: 'nonce', // optional
});
```

### Javascript
```javascript
const verifyAppleToken = require('verify-apple-id-token').default;

const jwtClaims = await verifyAppleToken({
    idToken: 'yourIdToken',
    clientId: 'yourAppleClientId',
    nonce: 'nonce', // optional
});
```

## Contribution

Thank you for your interest in contributing to `verify-apple-id-token`! Please see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn how to do it!

Commit message:

Refactor/jwt types (#121)
* refactor: add `@types/jsonwebtoken`

* Bump typescript from 4.6.4 to 4.7.2

Bumps [typescript](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript) from 4.6.4 to 4.7.2.
- [Release notes](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/releases)
- [Commits](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/compare/v4.6.4...v4.7.2)

---
updated-dependencies:
- dependency-name: typescript
  dependency-type: direct:development
  update-type: version-update:semver-minor
...

Signed-off-by: dependabot[bot] <support@github.com>

* chore: add formatter

* refactor: separate types

* docs: list types, set license

* refactor: alg is ES256

* Revert "refactor: alg is ES256"

This reverts commit 158c341efb4b4343bf2b2cae263429d66730f109.

* chore: add eslint, prettieer airbnb config

* chore: format files

* docs: remove exports

* refactor: remove custom JwtPayload

* refactor: remove alg checking

* Update package.json

* chore: configure eslint

* refactor: back to arrow function

* refactor: correct array finding `aud` in `clientId`

* refactor: rename arg to `aud`

* refactor: more human friendly types

* refactor: bool parse `email_verified` `is_private_email`

for human friendly skipping additional transformations

Co-authored-by: dependabot[bot] <49699333+dependabot[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token/workflows/Build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token/actions)
[![Publish Status](https://github.com/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token/workflows/Publish/badge.svg)](https://github.com/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token/actions)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/verify-apple-id-token)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/verify-apple-id-token)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=TD7C0Z3YA6)](https://codecov.io/gh/stefan-prokop-cz/verify-apple-id-token)

# Verify Apple idToken

- Small utility which verifies the Apple idToken
- You can use it on the backend side
- Token verification is part of [Apple sign-in](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/signinwithapplerestapi) process
- The flow is
  - Client app (iOS or Android) will redirect user to the OAuth2 login screen
  - User will login
  - App will receive the tokens
  - App should send the `idToken` to the backend which will verify it
- [Verification steps implemented](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/sign_in_with_apple_rest_api/verifying_a_user):
  - Verify the JWS E256 signature using the server’s public key
  - Verify the nonce for the authentication
  - Verify that the iss field contains https://appleid.apple.com
  - Verify that the aud field is the developer’s client_id
  - Verify that the time is earlier than the exp value of the token

## Installation

```bash
npm install verify-apple-id-token
```

## Usage

### Typescript

```typescript
import verifyAppleToken from "verify-apple-id-token";

const jwtClaims = await verifyAppleToken({
  idToken: "yourIdToken",
  clientId: "yourAppleClientId",
  nonce: "nonce", // optional
});

jwtClaims.email; // get email of the user
```

### Javascript

```javascript
const verifyAppleToken = require("verify-apple-id-token").default;

const jwtClaims = await verifyAppleToken({
  idToken: "yourIdToken",
  clientId: "yourAppleClientId",
  nonce: "nonce", // optional
});
```

## Contribution

Thank you for your interest in contributing to `verify-apple-id-token`! Please see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn how to do it!

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
